---
Title: Visualization of Sentinel-2 GeoJSON Data
Description: Developer diary for rendering data from an EOX REST service, that serves geojson describing Sentinel2 satellite images.
Author: Thomas Ortner
Date: 2018-11-06
Robots: noindex,nofollow
Template: blog-post
---
# Visualization of Sentinel-2 GeoJSON Data

## Project Goal

EOX is our partner in the Minerva project, and they specialize in geospatial databases. EOX and most of their projects are very keen on supporting open standards such as OGC and so on. In the course of their collaboration with ESA in the Copernicus programme they built a public interface to Earth observation data collected by the Sentinel-2 orbiter available as a REST service. Nowadays, everything is a REST service, which simple means that certain parameters in a URL are your query parameters and you get data back via an http request, typically an xml or json file. This URL provides a REST service adhereng to open search standards [http://ows.eox.at/evo-odas/eoxserver/opensearch/collections/sentinel2/json/](http://ows.eox.at/evo-odas/eoxserver/opensearch/collections/sentinel2/json/). Our goal is to build a small mockup with Aardvark.Media, which queries this REST service and interprets and visualizes the data provided in the form of GeoJSON.

## Approach

First, we spend some time on planning and make a short roadmap consisting of milestone. Each milestone is a runnable prototype, which in the best case visualizes something. In the most general way, our application will be a concatenation of mappings, transforming our input data a couple of times until we see pixels on the screen. Most of the apps we program can be characterized this way, some give it a fancy name like "the data flow" pattern, but that's a 100 dollar name for a 1 dollar concept.

In the functional world, transformations are functions, and the things we transform are types. A first sketch for this program, for the whole program btw, may look like this: `.json -> Model -> ISg`. From that we can create a module that will have the following functions:

```javascript
module GeoJson =
  
  type Model = {
    data : int
  }

  let load (jsonFile : string) : Model = failwith "not implemented"

  let view (m : Model) : ISg = failwith "not implemented"

```

And these two transformations are already our two milestones

* Milestone A: Parse and load json data into model
* Milestone B: Transform model to Sgs and view data